# Localization #

The SDK supports basic localization of strings appearing in your
main add-on's JavaScript code. It doesn't, yet, support localization
of HTML, CSS, or content scripts.

## Writing Localizable Code ##

To write localizable code, you do this:

    var _ = require("l10n").get;
    console.log(_("Hello!"));

<span class="aside">Although assigning to `_` in particular is
only conventional, it's important that you do this, as it means
that in the future you'll be able to use `cfx` functions to build
templates for locale files.</span>


1. Import the `l10n` module, and assign its `get` function to
"`_`" (underscore).
2. Wrap all references to localizable strings with the `_()`
function.

That's a fully functional add-on as it stands. If you run it
you'll see the expected output:

<pre>
info: Hello!
</pre>

## Localizing Your Code ##

To localize the code, create a directory called "locale" under
your main add-on directory. In it, create one file for each locale
you need to support. The files:

* use the [`.properties` format](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/.properties)
* are named "xx-YY.properties", where "xx-YY" is the [name of the locale](https://wiki.mozilla.org/L10n:Locale_Codes) in question
* contain one entry for each string you want to localize.

For example, if you want to add a French localization for the
add-on above, you'd add a file called "fr-FR.properties" in the
"locale" directory, and add the following text to it:

<pre>
Hello!= Bonjour!
</pre>

Now if you run the add-on with Firefox switched to the French
locale, you'll see:

<pre>
info: Bonjour!
</pre>

## Using Identifiers ##

If `l10n.get()` can't find a localization of a string using the current
locale, then it just returns the string you passed in. This is why the
example above displayed "Hello!" when there were no locale files present.

This has the nice property that you can write localizable, fully
functional code without having to write any locale files. You can just
use the default language in your code, and subsequently supply
`.properties` files for all the additional locales you want to support.

However, this approach makes it difficult to maintain an add-on which
has many localizations, because you're using the default language strings
both as user interface strings and as keys to look up your translations.
This means that if you want to change the wording of a string in the default
language, or fix a typo, then you break all your locale files.

To avoid this you can use identifiers in your code, and supply
localizations for all the languages you intend to support. For example,
in your main.js:

    var _ = require("l10n").get;
    console.log(_("hello_string"));

Then you can create .properties files for both `en-US` and `fr-FR`:

<pre>
# en-US translations
hello_string= Hello!
</pre>

<pre>
# fr-FR translations
hello_string= Bonjour!
</pre>

## <a name="limitations">Limitations</a> ##

The current localization support is a first step towards full support,
and contains a number of limitations.

* There's no support for content scripts, HTML files, or CSS files: at
the moment, you can only localize strings appearing in JavaScript files
that can `require()` SDK modules.

* The set of locale files is global across an add-on. This means that
a module isn't able to override a more general translation: so a module
`informal.js` can't specify that "hello_string" occurring in its code
should be localized to "Hi!".

* The SDK tools compile the locale files into a JSON format when
producing an XPI. This means that localizers can't localize an add-on
given the XPI alone, but must be given access to the add-on source.

* The add-on developer must manually assemble the set of localizable
strings that make up the locale files. In a future release we'll add
a command to `cfx` that scans the add-on for localizable strings and
builds a template `.properties` file listing all the strings that need
to be translated. This command will assume that you've assigned
`l10n.get` to "`_`": if you've assigned it to something else, it won't
work.
